Feat(eos_designs): Add WAN design new top level schema keys (#3388)
aristanetworks/ansible-avd: ansible_collections/arista/avd/roles/eos_designs/docs/wan-preview.md

---
# This title is used for search results
title: Ansible Collection Role eos_design - WAN preview
---
<!--
  ~ Copyright (c) 2023 Arista Networks, Inc.
  ~ Use of this source code is governed by the Apache License 2.0
  ~ that can be found in the LICENSE file.
  -->

# WAN preview

!!! warning
    The integration of WAN designs to `eos_designs` role is in preview mode.

    Everything is subject to change, is not supported and may not be complete.

    If you have any questions, please leverage the GitHub [discussions board](https://github.com/aristanetworks/ansible-avd/discussions)

## Overview

The intention is to support both a single [AutoVPN design](https://www.arista.com/en/cg-veos-router/veos-router-auto-vpn) and [CV Pathfinder](https://www.arista.com/en/solutions/enterprise-wan/pathfinder).

### Design points

1. The intent is to be able to support having the different WAN participating devices in different inventories.
2. Only iBGP is supported as an overlay_routing_protocol.

> 3. On the AutoVPN Route Reflectors and Pathfinders, a listen range statement is used for BGP to allow for point 4umber 1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. On the AutoVPN Route Reflectors and Pathfinders, a listen range statement is used for BGP to allow for point number 1.
```

4. The default VRF is being configured by default on all WAN devices with a `vni_id` of 1. To override this, it is necessary to configure the `default` VRF in a tenant in `network_services`.

> 5. When configuring HA on a site, the ID `65535` is reserved for the path group called `LAN_HA`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. When configuring HA on a site, the path group ID `65535` is reserved for the path group called `LAN_HA`
```

## Known limitations

> - Zones not supported for CV Pathfinder in a first place, all sites are being configured in a default zone `DEFAULT-ZONE` with ID `1`, not configurable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Zones are not configurable for CV Pathfinder. All sites are being configured in a default zone `DEFAULT-ZONE` with ID `1`.
```

> - Because of the previous point, in `eos_designs`, the `transit` node type is converted to a `transit region` configuration in the structured_config and the EOS configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Because of the previous point, in `eos_designs`, the `transit` node type is always confiugred as `transit region`.

```

- For `cv-pathfinder` mode, the following flow-tracking configuration is applied
    without any customization possible:

    ```eos
    flow tracking hardware
       tracker WAN-FLOW-TRACKER
        record export on inactive timeout 70000
        record export on interval 5000
        exporter DPI-EXPORTER
         collector 127.0.0.1
         local interface Loopback0
         template interval 5000
    !

>     ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ```eos
    flow tracking hardware
       tracker WAN-FLOW-TRACKER
          record export on inactive timeout 70000
          record export on interval 5000
          exporter DPI-EXPORTER
             collector 127.0.0.1
             local interface Loopback0
             template interval 5000
    ```
```

- No IPv6 support

## Future work

- As of now, only the fundations of the `eos_designs` functionality for WAN is
    being introduced without any support for LAN and WAN interfaces.
    This implies that path-groups are not configured.
- The configuration of AVT policies is not supported yet and will be introduced
    later.
- HA for sites will be covered in a future PR

## `eos_cli_config_gen` support

- `eos_cli_config_gen` schema should support all of the required keys to
    configure a WAN network, whether AutoVPN or Pathfinder. If you find any
    missing functionality, please open an issue on Github.

## Input variables

!!! warning
    All the keys in this section marked as PREVIEW or children of a key marked as
    PREVIEW are subject to change and are not supported.

> ### New node types in L3LS eos_designs

Reviewer: As a later TODO we should add the node type table here covering the new types. This will make it simpler to understand and we can easily copy these to the final docs once this leaves preview.

         collector 127.0.0.1
         local interface Loopback0
         template interval 5000
    ```

- No IPv6 support

## Future work

- As of now, only the fundations of the `eos_designs` functionality for WAN is
    being introduced without any support for LAN and WAN interfaces.
    This implies that path-groups are not configured.
- The configuration of AVT policies is not supported yet and will be introduced
    later.
- HA for sites will be covered in a future PR

## `eos_cli_config_gen` support

- `eos_cli_config_gen` schema should support all of the required keys to
    configure a WAN network, whether AutoVPN or Pathfinder. If you find any
    missing functionality, please open an issue on Github.

## Input variables

!!! warning
    All the keys in this section marked as PREVIEW or children of a key marked as
    PREVIEW are subject to change and are not supported.

### New node types in L3LS eos_designs

- `wan_edge`: Edge routers for AutoVPN or Pathfinder depending on the `wan_mode` value.
- `wan_transit`: Transit routers in Pathfinder context, not supported for AutoVPN.
- `wan_rr`: AutoVPN RR or Pathfinder depending on the `wan_mode` value.

> The following table indicates the settingds

Author: ```suggestion
The following table indicates the settings
```

> #### L3LS EVPN
> 

Author: ```suggestion
```
